Problem statement:

Initial State:
Prediction of Revenue, Number of bookings for a Travel Management company happens solely with the historical data and basic ecconomic indicators such as GDP.

Desired Final State:
1) A forecasting model that predicts indicators for 0-90 days and also for up to 365 days, by including internal and external data
2) Identified relevant segmentations of data to enhance analytics

Questions:
1) What are the internal and external factors to include for predicting the Revenue, Number of bookings?
2) What is the metric to determine the predictions of Revenue, Number of bookings?
3) How can the data be segmented to create meaningful insights?

Approach:
Followed the 6 stage framework of CRISP Data Mining process

Business understanding:

1) Business travel contributes $1.18 trillion to the global economy 
2) Business Travel and Expenditures is often the second highest controllable annual expense for a company
3) Predicting the Revenue, Number of bookings will help the company to allocate the resources more efficiently

Data understanding

1) The data is a longitudinal. It has the Transaction ID, month, year, date of booking, # of tickets booked, Region of booking, GDP of the booking region
2) The dataset consists of ~50000 instances ranging across 4 years

Data Preperation:

1) Identied external factors which will be useful for the predictions gauging it across Relevance and Accessibility from majority voting method
2) Aggregated the Revenue, Number of bookings data at a Year, Quarter, Month, Region level
3) I have added external factors like Monthly global production of crude steel, U.S. Gross Output

#Doubt - Why is sampling taken?

Mdelling:
1) I have used Linear Regression modelling
2) Nested predictions was used. Predictions of the initial months was considered for the preictions of the later months
3) Have created a R Shiny application to predict the targets variables

Clustering - I have implemented time series hierarchial clustering to identify groups of customers in the data which behave similarly.
There were significant insights about the customers in eawch cluster

Evaluation:
1) Have used the metric Error rate to evaluate the difference of Actual and predicted number of shares. 
2) Also looked at RMSe and MAE evaluation metrics
3) Baseline model which was created was the mean of the Revenue at the levvel of data analysis. Post which the above mentioned evaluation metricss were applied for comparison

Deployment (Next Steps):
1) The R shiny application can be used by deploying the same in the Travel Management company. Multiple users can access if its on a cloud sharing platform like AWS or R server
2) It can also be automated so that on a monthly basis when the data changes, the predictions can be produced and used. We can connect the model to the platform from where the data is stored
